Sushant Mittal 
CSCI5832 - NLP
Assignment 1: Deterministic English Segmentation
September 22,2015
------------------------------------------------

------------
Part 1: Implement and explore the behavior of MaxMatch algorithm
When it fails, what is the source of the failure?
  There are a few things that could cause the failure.
  1) There may be some  words in the bigwordlist(corpus) that are not mst useful and they shouldn't be there.
  2) There may be words that aren't in the dictionary (corpus) that should be.
  3) There may be compound words- like "themed" and it can be broken into multiple pieces.
  4) There may be 3 letter words that starts with "i" which might create the problem.
  5) When there are no matched words found in the bigwordlist,the max_match algorithm count it as a single word,that might create the problem
How many different kind of failures are there?
	There could be unlimited different kind of failure,depending on depending on the language used, the dictonary provided, and what the users want. For example, there are five very simple examples listed above.  


------------
Part 2: Computing WER
The first step to calculate the average WER is to calculate the minimum number of edits
(deletions, insertions and substitutions) to get from the system's hypothesis to the actual correct reference answer.
WER is then just the length normalized minimum edit distance 
(i.e, minimum edit distance divided by the length of the reference in terms of words).
Calculated WER based on the input set using regular MaxMatch algorithm:
By averaged WERs =0.6612244897959182


------------
Part 3: Improving MaxMatch
Tweak the original algorithm or alter the lexicon or both
Limit yourself to considerations such as:
(1) changing the MaxMatch strategy, 
(2) changing the greedy nature of its heuristic, or 
(3) manipulations to your lexicon.

Improvements made:
1) Manipulate Lexicon. Removed the single character words from the bigwordlist.
2) Manipulate Lexicon. Removed the two character words,other than valid character
3) Manipulate Lexicon. Removed the three character words,other than valid character
4) Changing MaxMatch Strategy. When there are no matched words found in the bigwordlist,the max_match algorithm count it as a single word.In the modified algorithm,it don't append that word in output. 
5) Changing MaxMatch Strategy. If the matched words contains "the" word,it append "the" only in the output instead of full word


Calculated WER based on the input set using modified MaxMatch algorithm:
By averaged WERs =  0.3321853741496598

